Skip to main content opens in new tab or window City Government Closed Monday, October 12 Most City and County of Denver offices will be closed Monday for the Indigenous Peoples' Day holiday. Solid waste collection services will not be affected; set carts out on your regular schedule. Quick Links Make a Payment Report an Issue Services English (United States) Select this as your preferred language Select a language to translate to English (United States) Select this as your preferred language Open Search Menu My Property Trash, Recycle & Compost Trash, Recycle, Compost: Collection Schedules and Guidelines Denver Utilities Online Apply for Rebates Cart Set-Out and Service Guidelines Large Item Pickup Trash Recycle Compost Seasonal Programs Additional Services Resources Be Cart Smart! Universal Recycling & Composting Ordinance Report Missed Pick-up Neighborhood Inspections Property Information Denver Zoning Code Denver Maps Property Assessments Property Records Property Values Real Property Property Tax Property Tax Information Pay Property Taxes Real Estate Delinquent Taxes & Tax Lien Sale Senior Property Tax Exemption Property Tax Relief Remodeling and Construction Building Codes, Policies, and Guides Denver Zoning Code Denver Permitting Office Find Your Zoning Online Construction Services Permits (E-Permits) Utilities DenverWater.org Billing & Customer Service Pay Storm Drainage & Sidewalk Bills Online Storm Drainage e-Billing Wastewater Billing and Support Community Activities, Programs, and Events Special Events Upcoming Events in Denver Arts & Venues Calendar View & Register for Recreation Center Classes City Meetings & Events Climate & Sustainability Take Climate Action Climate Policies Climate Investments Denver Climate Project Do More Do Less Do Something Neighborhoods Denver Days Find City Council Districts Find a Library Find a Local School Find Registered Neighborhood Organizations (RNOs) Historic Landmarks & Districts Neighborhood Data Dashboards Community Planning & Development Planning Projects Neighborhood Inspections Transportation & Infrastructure Projects Denver's Federal Immigration Enforcement Response Parks and Public Spaces City Venues and Buildings Find a Park Park Rentals and Permits Recreation Centers Swimming Pools Trails Resident Services MyFriendBen Rent, Eviction & Foreclosure Help Energy Assistance (LEAP) Pet Services Online Services Support Programs Denver's Food Resources Extreme Heat Resources Find Shelter and "Front Door" Access Housing and Homelessness Guide Community Mediation Youth and Family Resources Wildfire Safety Share & Connect Sign up for the Denver Local Digital Experience Denver Community Media Business Build Your Business Denver Jobs Agenda Start Your Business Grow Your Business Choose Denver Economic Development & Opportunity Business Licensing Security Services Marijuana Licenses Liquor Licenses Alarm Permit Short Term Rentals Business Licenses Directory Business Resources Auditor - Small Business Resources Employer Assistance Business Personal Property Certifiably Green Denver Transportation & Infrastructure Document Center DOTI Design Project Management Guidelines Business Tax Pay Business Tax Information Do Business with DOTI Current Bidding Opportunities Bid Results Current Transportation & Infrastructure Projects Future Construction Solicitations Future Professional Services Solicitations Future Opportunities for On-Call Contract Holders List of Current On-Call Contract Holders Notices of Final Settlement for Construction Find Jobs City Jobs Career Service Board Jobseeker Resources Work with the City Become a City Vendor Bidding Opportunities - Current Bidding Opportunities - Awarded Small Business Certification Prevailing Wage Vehicles & Parking Parking In Denver Parking Permits & Programs Tickets, Towing & Disputes Street Parking Accessible Parking Sign Program Public Parking Lots and Garages Curbside Planning and Outreach Vehicles Denver Motor Vehicle Title Services Vehicle Dealers and Fleet Managers Emissions & Insurance Requirements Online Vehicle Auctions Report an Abandoned Vehicle Bikes Bike Parking Denver Bike Map EBike and Scooter Share Register Your Bike Public Transit System Map & Transit Corridors Transit Projects RTD (Regional Transportation District) Streets and Maintenance Paving and Improvements Street Sweeping Snow Removal Sidewalk Programs Towing & Impound Safety Department of Public Safety 911 Emergency Services Community Corrections Commissions & Accountability Public Safety Cadet Program Alternative Response Data and Transparency About the Department of Public Safety Crime Prevention and Control Commission Fire Department Find a Fire Station Fire Permits & Licensing Police Department Find a Police Station Concealed Weapons Crime Maps & Dashboards Sex Offenders Cold Cases Police Records Traffic Enforcement Photo Radar Enforcement File a Report Sheriff Department Inmate Services Jail Visits Inmate Lookup Citizen Oversight Board Office of the Independent Monitor Report Street Racing Warrants and Case Records Government Citywide Programs and Initiatives General Obligation (GO) Bond Programs Downtown Development Authority Blueprint Denver American Rescue Plan Act Funding Comprehensive Plan 2040 National Western Center Office of Social Equity & Innovation Peak Performance Vision Zero Agencies, Departments, and Offices City Jobs Elected Officials Mayor Mike Johnston Denver City Council Auditor - Timothy O'Brien Clerk & Recorder - Paul López Election Resources Current Election Information Register to Vote Where to Vote Track Your Ballot Denver Elections Division Denver Decides Election Data and Maps Legislation and Transparency Denver Revised Municipal Code Executive Orders How City Government Works Public Meetings Investments & Debt Transparent Denver Data and Maps Open Data Catalog DEN Airport Open Data Denver Maps Neighborhood Maps Council District Maps Crime Information Historic Landmarks & Districts Make a Payment Court Citations Solid Waste Bills Pay a Parking Ticket Pet Licensing Pay Property Taxes Stormwater Records Audit Reports Board of Adjustment for Zoning Records Clerk & Recorder Records Police Records Property Records Colorado Open Records Act (CORA) General Records Retention Schedule Search Home / Government / Agencies, Departments, and Offices / Business licensing center / License directory / Short-term rentals Short-term rentals Initial reviews for short-term rental applications can take up to 30 days. Specialist reviews can take up to 90 days. These reviews allow the Department to adhere to ordinance requirements. We appreciate your patience. You can check the status and last time your application changed below. We do not provide pre-approval. In order for a license to be considered an application has to be submitted. We do not provide legal advice for applications. What is a short-term rental? Often facilitated by peer-to-peer websites such as VRBO.com and AirBnB.com , a short-term rental is a residential dwelling unit available for rent for one to 29 days. Pursuant to the Denver Revised Municipal Code , the City and County of Denver requires hosts to get a license to offer a short-term rental in their primary residence. Primary residence means the place where a person's habitation is fixed for the term of the license and is the person's usual place of return. A person can have only one primary residence. Check the status of a license application Do I need a short-term rental license? If you rent a property to guests for fewer than 29 nights at one time, a short-term rental license is required. The property being rented must be your primary residence. If you are not the property owner, you will need permission from the property owner to operate short-term rentals there. If you only rent for 30-plus days at a time, a residential rental property license is required. Do I qualify for a short-term rental license? What is a primary residence? Is this my primary residence? Primary residence is the place in which a person's habitation is fixed for the term of the license and is the person's usual place of return. A person can have only one primary residence. Note the common use of the term "usual," meaning "more often than not." The City and County of Denver has a specific definition of primary residence. Claiming primary residence with state or other governmental entities does not in itself meet the city definition. For example, claiming primary residence at a location for tax purposes would not necessarily make it a person's primary residence for purposes of getting a short-term rental license. Per the Denver Revised Municipal Code, the Department can consider the following criteria in determining an applicant's primary residence: Whether the applicant has or claims any other location for domestic, legal, billing, voting, or licensing purposes. Whether and how often the applicant returns to the short-term rental or resides at any other location within a calendar year. Whether the address listed on an applicant's legal documents or tax assessment records is different than the address of the short-term rental. Whether an applicant's business pursuits, employment, income sources, residence for income or other tax purposes, leaseholds, situs of personal and real property, and motor vehicle registration indicate that the short-term rental is the applicant's primary residence. Whether the amount of time that the short-term rental has been, or will be, rented within the calendar year indicates the short-term rental is or is not the applicant's primary residence. Whether the applicant is actively deployed in the United States military. Whether any other relevant information discovered by the director or submitted by the applicant indicates that the short-term rental is not the applicant's primary residence. The list of scenarios below can also help determine if an STR location (always a single residential dwelling unit) would qualify as a primary residence. This is not an exhaustive list and should not be construed as legal advice. I have no primary residence It is possible for a person to have no primary residence if their lifestyle is more nomadic in nature. If a person's habitation is not fixed at the STR location, as required, then it would not be considered their primary residence. My spouse and family live somewhere else Where your spouse and family lives is a factor that could be considered by the director in determining your primary residence. While it is possible for a person to live separately from their spouse, the Department would generally consider it more likely that they live together. It is the applicant's burden to prove their primary residence is separate from that of their spouse and family. I stay here when I'm in Denver Primary residence does not include any qualifier such as "when I'm in Denver" or "when the home is not rented." A person's primary residence is the place where their habitation is fixed for the term of the license and their usual place of return. If a person does not usually return to the STR location, then it likely would not qualify as their primary residence. Primary residence is a person's "usual place of return." If a person is not usually returning to the STR location to live, then it likely would not qualify as their primary residence. Returning to a home for purpose of cleaning or "turn over" between STR stays would not qualify as returning for this purpose. I receive benefits related to my primary residence somewhere else A person can only have one primary residence. If a person is receiving a benefit, such as a short-term rental license in another city that has a primary residence requirement, then the STR location likely would not qualify as their primary residence. I did not usually return, but only ever stayed in other hotels and not another home It is possible for a person to have no primary residence if their lifestyle is more nomadic in nature. If a person's habitation is not fixed at the STR location, as required, then it likely would not be considered their primary residence. I stay somewhere else, but I do not own it or have a lease If a home is where a person's habitation is fixed for the term of the license and their usual place of return, then that would be considered their primary residence, regardless of formal possession. I only stay with my significant other when the home is rented If the STR location is usually booked and the applicant is not usually returning there, then it likely would not qualify as their primary residence. If the STR location is only booked some of the time and the applicant usually returns there, it would likely qualify as their primary residence. I have to stay somewhere else for work The location of a person's business pursuits, employment, income sources, and residence for income are all factors that could be considered by the Department in determining their primary residence. If a person is relocated away from the STR location for work or school, then the STR location would likely cease being the place where their habitation is fixed and would therefore no longer qualify as their primary residence. If a person travels for work, but still usually returns to the STR location, it would continue to qualify as their primary residence. I work remotely and often live elsewhere It is possible for a person to have no primary residence if their lifestyle is more nomadic in nature. If a person's habitation is not fixed at the STR location, as required, then it would not be considered their primary residence and the Department would deny their application. If a person's habitation is fixed at the STR location and it remains their place of usual return, then it would remain their primary residence. I am deployed somewhere else Whether the applicant is actively deployed in the United States military is a factor the Department can consider in determining their primary residence. If their habitation is otherwise fixed at the STR location and it is their usual place of return when they are not deployed, then it likely would qualify as their primary residence. But changing permanent residence paperwork to a location without the other conditions being met would not make it their primary residence. Short-term rental FAQs and application video guides All short-term rental applicants should start by watching our step-by-step video guides . You can access a list of frequently asked questions about short-term rentals and application requirements. Check on the status of an application An applicant can check on the status of an application at any time through the online application portal. Check the status of a license application . Check our current application processing times . If an applicant has a complete and pending renewal, they can continue operating the STR for as long as the renewal is pending. The Department will send all correspondence, including requests for more information, to the email address associated with the application. If you submitted a renewal application after your license expired, your hosting platform might have disabled your ability to take new short-term rental reservations. You might need to manually correct your booking calendar and minimum stay after submitting the renewal. It could take up to a week for the hosting platform to sync with city systems and allow bookings. Call 311 if your listing remains disabled. New short-term rental application Information on how to submit an application for a new short-term rental license. Renewal short-term rental application Information on how to submit an application to renew a short-term rental license. Short-term rentals laws, rules, and regulations Information about laws, rules, and regulations for short-term rentals. Short-term rental frequently asked questions Answers to frequently asked questions. Complaints and mediation Information if you have an issue with a short-term rental operation in your neighborhood. Short-term rental outreach Short-term rental outreach information. Videos on short-term rental online applications How-to videos to submit short-term rental applications online. Password reset instructions Information on how to reset your password in Denver's Permitting and Licensing Center. License or permit copy instructions Information on how to get a copy of your license or permit in Denver's Permitting and Licensing Center. Bulletins and news Want to receive the latest news and updates about short-term rentals in Denver? Sign up for the bulletin. Sign up now Share Facebook X Email Print Reddit Back to top Site Footer Contact 3-1-1 Report an Issue Call 3-1-1 Outside Denver: (720) 913-1311 Hearing Impaired Only (TTY): (720) 913-8479 For Emergencies: 9-1-1 Site Footer Visit Other Denver Sites Denver Arts & Venues Denver County Courts Denver Public Library Denver International Airport Denver Zoo Visit Denver Site Footer City News & Updates Stay informed with newsletters and alerts from city agencies and programs. Sign up today Follow Us On Social City Jobs | Accessibility | Privacy & Security | Terms of Use | Open Records (CORA) © 2026 City and County of Denver | Powered by Granicus