Skip to content Nashville.gov Home Nashville and Davidson County Search Payments Services Police, Fire, and EMS Recycling and Trash Animal Services Human Resources Metro Employee Resources Veterans Services Permits and Codes Parks and Recreation Vehicle Services Marriage and Other Licenses Property Services View All Metro Services Government Mayor's Office Metro Council Boards and Commissions Metropolitan Clerk Events and Meetings News Releases Departments Metro Nashville Network Nashville Insights Open Data Jobs Menu Toggle Submit a hubNashville Request Translate Español (ES) العربية (AR) Kurdî (KU) Soomaali (SO) English (EN) View All Languages Translate Submit a hubNashville Request Search Breadcrumb Home Departments Codes Short Term Rental Property Navigation Nationwide Zoning and Short Term Rental Scam Notice Scams have increased recently impersonating planning and zoning agencies to solicit fraudulent fees. Learn more Short Term Rental Permits The new online Short Term Rental permit application process became effective March 11, 2026. Navigation Codes and Building Safety Department Home Ice Storm Info Codes Administration License Renewal System Department Listing Related Boards Adopted Codes List Publications List General Publications List Public Records and Information Daily Reports Property Permit History Construction and Permits Building Permits Central Construct an Addition to a Single-Family Residence Renovate a Single-Family Residence Add a Deck or Patio to a Residence Build a Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit (DADU) Build a Fence Move a Business Into an Existing Property Water Meter Inspection Backflow Preventer Inspection Pool Permitting Front Porch Addition Single Family Residence Accessory Structure Permitting Instructions E-Permits System Training Guides and Videos Codes Permits Search Electronic Plans Review Requesting an Inspection Commercial Building Permit Process Commercial Use and Occupancy Permits Commercial Renovation Permit Commercial Addition Master Permit (Multiple Buildings) New Construction Residential Building Permits Building Permit Process Sign Permit Process Trades Permits Solar Panel Photovoltaic Permits Emergency Electrical Reconnects Use and Occupancy Letter Land Use and Zoning Information Board of Zoning Appeals Zoning Appeals Dockets Urban Forestry Tree and Shrub List Tree Protection During Construction Worksheet for Urban Forestry Zoning Examinations Home Occupation Permits Restrictive Covenants Understanding the Zoning Code Contact List Property Standards Code Enforcement Property Maintenance Code Codes Violation Process Codes Violation Types Codes Violation History Search Community Support Programs NOTICE Program Environmental Court Landlord Registration Report A Codes Violation Short Term Rentals Contact Information Apply for a Permit Renew a Permit Property Search Permit Types Operation Rules and Requirements Use and Occupancy Taxes Board of Appeals Legislative History Frequently Asked Questions File a Complaint In Nashville and Davidson County, the law requires that anyone wishing to rent a property on Short Term Rental Property (STRP) websites must receive a permit from the Metro Codes Department prior to listing. The Short Term Rental Property owner shall not receive any compensation or remuneration to permit occupancy of an Short Term Rental Property for a period of less than twenty-four hours. The maximum stay for any guest shall be thirty consecutive days. All questions may be directed to [email protected] . Metro Short Term Rental Code of Law §6.28.030 Short Term Rental Property Topics Who Do I Contact? How to get in touch with Metro Codes for your Short Term Rental Property questions. Apply for a Permit Follow this step-by-step process to apply for a Short Term Rental Property permit. Renew a Permit Short Term Rental Property permits must be renewed annually. Property Search Find out if you can get a Short Term Rental Property permit at your location. Permit Types Read an explanation of the different types of permits available. Operation Rules and Requirements Everything you need to know about your responsibilities and obligations. Use and Occupancy Taxes The permit holder is required to remit business, sales, and hotel occupancy taxes to the city and state. Board of Appeals The Short Term Rental Appeals Board hears and decides appeals from decisions made by the zoning administrator. Legislative History Review past and current legislation related to Short Term Rentals in Nashville. Frequently Asked Questions Questions you may have during the process and their answers. File a Complaint Follow the process for reporting illegal Short Term Rental Properties and related complaints. Related Tags Codes and Building Safety Short Term Rental Property (Codes) Last updated: March 11, 2026 at 7:47 AM Codes and Building Safety Contact Information Address Metro Office Building 800 President Ronald Reagan Way 1st Floor, Codes Department Nashville, TN 37210 Phone 615-862-6500 Hours Monday - Friday 7:30 a.m.-4:00 p.m. Saturday - Sunday Closed Codes and Building Safety Facebook Codes and Building Safety X Was this page helpful? Yes No This form should ONLY be used to provide feedback about the design, functionality or content of the Nashville.gov website. If you need to be contacted or require customer service or assistance from any Metro department, you must contact hubNashville online or dial 311 or 615-862-5000. For non-emergency police assistance dial 615-862-8600. What did you like? What needs to be improved? Leave this field blank Mobile Apps Nashville.gov offers mobile apps for the App Store and Google Play. Get Apps Nashville.gov Nashville.gov Accessibility Statement Analytics Dashboard Non-Discrimination Privacy and Security Terms of Service Quick Links Quick Links eBid Nashville Voting and Elections Metro Employee Resources Jobs Metro Photo Archive Contact Contact Contact Metro Customer Service: 311 Connect Connect Content Subscriptions Social Media Center Nashville.gov Facebook Nashville.gov X Nashville.gov Instagram Nashville.gov YouTube © 2026 Official website of Metro Nashville & Davidson County