Skip to Main Content Home Community Government City Services How Do I...? Search City's Parking Garage at the Heavenly Village On-Street Parking and Administrative Citations Vacation Home Rentals Vacationing with Bears Home City Services Police Department Divisions Community Services Division Vacation Home Rentals Vacation Home Rentals Amended Ordinance Changes: "What has Changed?" Please see the below changes within the ordinance table, visual map table, and visual map zoning. Ordinance Changes: Ordinance 2025 - 1200 (June 17, 2025 - April 22, 2026) Ordinance 2026 (April 23, 2026 - Current) Established a 150-foot buffer between VHR properties outside the Tourist Core Area Plan, except for condominiums. 150-foot buffer is removed and replaced with a cap of no more than 900 VHR permits in residential areas. A waitlist is established when the cap is reached. A minimum age of 25 is established to rent a VHR. Prohibited VHRs in “multifamily dwellings,” but allowed VHRs in attached condominiums for applicants who had a permit as of September 1, 2016. Attached condominiums are allowed to get VHR permits unless the applicable homeowners association rules prohibit VHRs. VHRs still prohibited in other multifamily dwellings. Excluded timeshares from VHR regulation. Timeshares still excluded from VHR regulation. Required VHR owners outside Tourist Core Area Plan to use local property manager to check in guests and go over the rules, ensure compliance with operating conditions, receive real-time indoor sound monitoring and outdoor video monitoring to head off nuisance issues, and respond to complaints in person 24/7. These requirements now apply only in residential areas. Changed occupancy limits outside Tourist Core Area Plan to 2 per bedroom, with up to five children aged 13 and under not counting towards the occupancy limit. These occupancy limits now apply only in residential areas. Requires advertising platforms to include “family friendly” language for VHRs in residential areas. Required defensible space inspection prior to permit issuance, for properties outside Tourist Core Area Plan. Defensible space inspections now apply only in residential areas. Clarified that appeals of VHR permit denials and revocations appealed to the Planning Commission are final and not subject to further appeal to City Council. Appeals of permit denials go to an independent hearing officer instead of the Planning Commission. Required all VHR properties to be operated, maintained, and managed in compliance with conditions of operation irrespective of whether they are being used as a VHR at a given time. No change to this requirement. Commercial and recreational areas are regulated with rules applicable to the Tourist Core Area Plan. Room night reporting is required when remitting TOT payments. The prohibition on permit transfers is clarified to match existing practice, where a permit may be transferred into a family trust in which an owner is a trustee for estate planning purposes. Authorized permitting preference for prior VHR and Qualified VHR permit holders in good standing. The preferred application period provision has been deleted as that period has closed. VHR Zoning Map: There will be a 900 VHR cap in Residential zones. Residential zones are shown below in yellow. All other zones are not subject to a cap. To find the zone in which your address falls, use the Plan Area Map link here. Legend: Plan Area Statements: The Vacation Home Rental Ordinance 2026-1203 became effective April 23, 2026, 12:00 am . Follow City Council meeting agendas to stay informed. VHR permitting Questions? Contact: vhr@cityofslt.gov OR review our FAQ section at the bottom Inspection Question? Contact: vhrpermittech@cityofslt.gov or call (530) 230-0242 !!! IMPORTANT NOTE AS OF 8/21/2026 !!! Effective 8/21/2026, the City of South Lake Tahoe will place new VHR permit applications on the waitlist as the City approaches the 900-permit cap for residential zones. An issued permit is one in which an owner may legally operate and rent out a VHR. The City currently has a number of VHR permit applications in process. If these applicants complete all required inspections and pay applicable fees, the number of issued VHR permits in residential areas will exceed the 900-permit cap, therefore moving into effect a waitlist. NOTE : Tourist Core and Commercial Zones are not impacted by the 900-cap or waitlist. To apply for a VHR permit: Submit an Application Eligibility for VHR permit Please review the Issued Permit Map here for number updates. In addition, you can review the zoning of your property here: Zoning/Location check of property You will receive an email with next-step instructions after each stage of the process. Please wait for that email before contacting our office to ask what is next. Vacationing with Bears - Everything you need to stay bear-aware At Home Bear Basics At home checklist for Bear living Bear League educational material Dogs and Bears Secure your Trash VHR Permits You are required to have a permit to rent your property short-term. Short-term renting is categorized as fewer than 30 consecutive calendar days. Per South Lake Tahoe City Code Section 3.50.400(B), Vacation Home Rental permits must be renewed on an annual basis within 30 days prior to expiration. It is the property owner’s responsibility to renew a VHR permit. Payments will ONLY be accepted through the online application portal via credit card or e-check. As part of the application process, VHR properties not within the Tourist Core, are required to pass an on-site inspection. The VHR Inspector's Checklist provides detailed requirements for the inspection. There is no deadline to complete your inspection. However, please note that Vacation Home Rental permits are issued on a first-come, first-served basis. Because applicants may complete required steps at different times, some applications may move through the process more quickly than others. Permitting Process Please see the summarized timeline below of the application process 1. Applicant: Submits an application As of 8/21/2026 APPLICATIONS WILL BE ON A WAITLIST AND NOT REVIEWED UNTIL A SPACE BECOMES AVAILABLE. THERE IS NOT ETA ON THIS. 2. Staff: Reviews application and provides next steps (has 30 days to advise applicant) 3. Staff: ($) Sends applicant payment email for application and inspection fee 4. Applicant: ($) Pays for application and inspection fee 5. Applicant: Schedule inspection 6. Applicant: Complete and pass inspection (Or re-inspection + additional fee required) 7. Staff: ($) Sends applicant payment email for occupancy/annual fee 8. Applicant: ($) Pays for occupancy/annual fee 9. Staff: Reviews and issues a permit to applicant *Dates and timeframes are listed within the ordinance for your review. Requirements For all VHR Properties A complete description of VHR requirements can be found here: Ordinance 2026-1203 . The information below is only a summary of requirements. VHR owners are responsible for compliance with all requirements of the City Code. A valid VHR permit is required to operate and/or advertise a short-term rental. No more than one vacation home rental shall operate on a parcel. Transient occupancy tax shall be assessed for vacation home rentals. Occupancy of the vacation home rental shall be limited by (1) the number of paved parking spaces on the property and (2) the number of bedrooms: Number of Paved Parking Spaces Establishing Maximum Occupancy Number of Parking Spaces Maximum Occupancy 1 4 2 8 3 12 4 16 5 20 Number of Bedrooms Establishing Maximum Occupancy (Outside Residential Areas) Number of Bedrooms Maximum Occupancy Studio 4 1 6 2 8 3 10 4 12 5 14 Number of Bedrooms Establishing Maximum Occupancy (In Residential Areas) Number of Bedrooms Maximum Occupancy Studio 2 1 2 2 4 3 6 4 8 5 10 * For vacation home rentals with one or more bedrooms, up to five children aged 13 and under do not count towards the maximum occupancy. For studios, up to two children aged 13 and under do not count towards the maximum occupancy. Vacation home rentals shall not be used for commercial activities, including, but not limited to, weddings, receptions and large parties. Post a copy of the permit and a copy of the City Code conditions of operations in a conspicuous place within the VHR. All marketing, advertising, contracts, rental agreements, or websites depicting the VHR shall include the VHR permit number issued by the city. Exterior Signage: Sign MUST be clearly visible from the street. Example Template Interior Signage Example Template Hot Tub Signage (if applicable) Example Template Use of all outdoor spas or hot tubs shall be prohibited between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Emergency Exit Signage Example Template Designated paved parking spaces must be provided. This does not include garage parking and will be determined by the inspector. For inspection questions, please reach out to vhrpermittech@cityofslt.gov Use of any equipment generating noise and the use of outdoor amplified music, speakers or other amplified equipment is prohibited between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Emergency lighting. A property manager is required. This shall mean the person designated by the owner to implement the requirements of SLTCC section 3.50.440 in areas outside the Tourist Core Area Plan. The owner may serve as the property manager. Records of every night for which the vacation home rental is rented, including the name and contact information of the occupant tenant who has arranged to rent the vacation home rental, the rental rate, the number of occupants per night, and the number of vehicles, shall be maintained for a minimum period of three years before such records are discarded or destroyed. Owners are responsible for compliance with all requirements for sorting, disposal, storage, and collection of solid waste, recyclables, and yard trimmings in SLTCC chapter 4.150. Solid waste and recyclables shall not be left or stored on the exterior of the property except in a container(s) within a bear box or in an animal-resistant cart or container approved by the city or its franchisee under SLTCC chapter 4.150. Owners are required to have and use an animal-resistant recycling cart within 30 days of receiving notice from the city or its franchisee that such recycling carts are available. Camping and sleeping in tents, travel trailers, campers or recreational vehicles is prohibited on a VHR property. If a bear box is installed on the vacation home rental property, then all solid waste shall be stored in the bear box until collection. All bear boxes shall remain functional and maintained so as to ensure that wildlife cannot access trash. Additional Requirements for VHR Properties Outside Residential Areas It is unlawful to rent, lease, use or operate a multifamily dwelling unit as a vacation home rental. Condominiums are eligible for vacation home rental permits, except for condominiums that are part of an HOA that prohibits the use of short-term rentals. The property manager shall meet the occupants either in person or virtually to check them in at the beginning of each vacation home rental to verify identities and ensure that the property manager and responsible parties have signed the good neighbor contract certifying that the property manager has reviewed the conditions of operation with the responsible parties. Indoor noise and outdoor video monitoring devices shall be installed to immediately alert the property manager 24 hours a day, seven days a week, of potential violations of the conditions of operation of City Code section 3.50.440, including those conditions of operation related to noise, trash, and parking. The purpose of this requirement is to provide property managers with access to real-time information to allow them to prevent nuisances before neighbors are disturbed and to prevent violations of the conditions of operation. Property manager shall provide and maintain a local contact number with 24-hour, 7 days a week, availability for receiving reports of violations from the city and neighbors, and the property manager shall be available to respond in person within 60 minutes to such complaints, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Local Contact Authorization Form Fees VHRs - Outside Residential Areas Application Fee each $548 Annual Fee 4 or less occupancy 5 to 8 occupancy 9 to 12 occupancy 13 or more occupancy $200 $350 $650 $850 Inspection Fee $285 Re-Inspection Fee $165 VHRs - Inside Residential Areas Application Fee each $548 Annual Fee 4 or less occupancy 5 to 8 occupancy 9 to 12 occupancy 13 or more occupancy $670 $1,340 $2,680 $3,485 Inspection Fee $285 Re-Inspection Fee $165 Master Fee Schedule page: https://www.cityofslt.gov/634/Master-Fee-Schedule Master Fee Schedule Resolution: https://www.cityofslt.gov/DocumentCenter/View/23435/Res-2025-054-Master-Fee-Schedule-Vacation-Home-Rental-Fees?bidId= City code: Vacation Home Rentals City Code Additional information can be found in the FAQ section below. Submit an Application Hosted Rental Permits On November 17, 2020, City Council adopted an ordinance to regulate Hosted Rentals. Hosted rentals are not subject to the City's Vacation Home Rental (VHR) regulations as amended by Measure T, which only apply where an entire dwelling is rented for less than 30 days. The ordinance is intended to enact sensible regulations and define how hosted rentals would be permitted. The ordinance is drafted to avoid negative impacts on neighborhoods while establishing a legal framework for responsible home-sharing. Hosted Rental Application: Application Form City Code Section 6.55.295 contains requirements for Hosted rentals . Fees An application fee of $281 will be required at the time of your online application submittal and is required for every renewal period. Submit an Application If you are applying for a new permit or renewing, the Hosted Rental Application is REQUIRED . VHR Enforcement VHRs are enforced by the City of South Lake Tahoe Police Department - Community Services Division. How to Report A Disturbance To report a disturbance, please call our non-emergency phone (530) 542-6110 at the time of the disturbance and an Officer will be dispatched. Enforcement is available 24/7. Do not call anonymously as staff may follow up which could delay the enforcement response. To make a complaint online, please visit our online reporting page . Version OptionsVacation Home RentalsHeadline Version OptionsVacation Home RentalsHeadline Version Options Vacation Home Rentals Headline Version Options Vacation Home Rentals Headline Version OptionsVacation Home RentalsHea List of VHR Complaint Properties: VHR Complaint Report Legend provided below for the "List of VHR Complaint Properties: VHR Complaint Report": You can view daily incidents responded to by the South Lake Tahoe Police Department through Citizen RIMS, a web-based crime mapping site available to the public: https://southlaketahoe.citizenrims.com/map What To Report As a vacation home renter, we welcome you to the City of South Lake Tahoe and hope you enjoy our beautiful community as much as we do, but VHRs must adhere to our Leave No Impact Program to mitigate impacts on our non-vacationing residents. Please be respectful of the neighborhood and residents by Leaving No Impact from your visit. Noise No noise is permitted after 10:00 p.m. - 8:00 a.m. Trash Remember, you are visiting an area surrounded by the forest and we have hungry bears; bears view trash as an opportunity to eat. If garbage bags are left outside, or food is left inside of the vehicle, a bear will be encouraged to eat the food. Bears are very strong and will tear open trash bags and go through car windows for food. Store all trash tightly, leave no trash or food in the car, and do not leave trash bags outside the vacation home rental when you leave. Review the bear-aware rules above. Occupancy Visitors must adhere to the maximum number of occupants authorized in the VHR being rented. Occupancy cannot exceed the maximum number allowed, at any time. This information will be located on the permit within the VHR and the signage posted on the home. Weddings and parties are not allowed in VHR's at any time. Pools/Spas/Hot Tubs Use of pools, spas and hot tubs are prohibited between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Parking Please park legally in a paved parking space at your VHR. The number of parking spaces is limited to number of designated parking spaces at each VHR and is posted on the signage on the exterior of your VHR. Citations If the City of South Lake Tahoe Police Department is contacted for noise, parking, occupancy, or trash complaints, the owner and occupants are both subject to Administrative Citations. Measure T Updates What is Measure T? In 2003, the City adopted an ordinance to regulate Vacation Home Rentals (VHR's;) the City Council then frequently amended the ordinance to address the resident's complaints pertaining to VHR's. In 2017, the ordinance imposed stricter fines for parking, noise disturbances, and capped the number of VHR permits outside of the Tourist Core at 1,400. However, in 2018, a citizen initiative was proposed to further restrict VHR's in residential areas. Measure T, the citizen-initiated ballot measure that placed additional restrictions on VHR's in the City of South Lake Tahoe, was approved by voters on November 6th, 2018. Measure T also prohibited the issuance of new VHR permits in residential areas after it became effective, and prohibited renewal of VHR permits in residential areas after December 31st, 2020. In 2021, existing VHR permits in residential zones and all VHR permits issued to multi-family properties, regardless of location, automatically expired on the last day of the month for which the VHR permit would have been eligible for renewal. Measure T did not affect VHR permits in non-residential areas (tourist core, commercial, recreation) in the City of South Lake Tahoe; new VHR permits continued to be issued in non-residential areas. What is the current status of Measure T? A group called South Lake Tahoe Property Owners Group challenged Measure T in a lawsuit filed in December 2018, arguing that Measure T violates constitutional rights of property owners. On September 29th, 2020, the court issued an order finding most of the constitutional claims to be without merit and eliminating most of the issues from the case. South Lake Tahoe Property Owners Group appealed the trial court’s order and also requested that the court of appeal issue a stay of Measure T while the appeal is pending. The court of appeal denied the request for a stay on April 7th, 2021. Thus, the City continued to implement the requirements of Measure T including non-renewal of VHR permits in residential areas. On Thursday, March 13, El Dorado County Superior Court Judge Gary S. Slossberg issued a ruling striking down Measure T in its entirety. The court found the "permanent resident exception" in the QVHR permits to be unconstitutional. On April 1, 2025, the City Council voted not to appeal this decision. At meetings in April, May and June, the City Council discussed amendments to the Vacation Home Rental Regulations outside the Tourist Core. On June 3, 2025, the City Council approved the first reading of an amended VHR Ordinance. On June 17, City Council voted to adopt the Ordinance, which became effective on July 17, 2025. No permits were issued in residential areas prior to July 17th, 2025. The City will only accept online applications from preferred applicants. Preferred group- on Monday, June 23, beginning at 9:00 a.m. General public- on Saturday, August 23, beginning at 9:00a.m. Application submitted early or by other methods will not be accepted, queued or retained. VHR FAQs Hosted RENTAL FAQs Measure T FAQs VHR FAQs VHR FAQs What is required for a Hosted Rental application? Can I rent a short-term VHR without a permit? Having a past permit that has not expired, would this considered a renewal or a new application? Can I get on a waitlist for my permit application for VHR’s? Am I entitled to any refund? If I decide not to, or cannot operate a VHR, are there any incentives for long term rentals? What Changed Between the Buffer Ordinance and the Cap Ordinance? How many permits have been issued? Once I submit my application, what are next steps? Can I apply prior to owning my home? View All /FAQ.aspx Hosted RENTAL FAQs Hosted VHR FAQs How do I obtain a Hosted Rental Permit? What forms are required with an application?? What is the definition of a Hosted Rental? What qualifies as a “Homeowner”? Can a tenant qualify to have a Hosted Rental? I own a duplex, can I live in unit A and rent out unit B? What regulations are Hosted Rentals subject to? Can I rent my accessory dwelling unit? Do I have to renew my permit annually? View All /FAQ.aspx Measure T FAQs Measure T FAQs What are the next steps? Can I run a VHR without a permit? How soon can I apply for a permit? If I had a VHR prior to Measure T within the residential area and no longer have it, do I get priority on a permit? Having had a permit in the past, if I apply, is this considered a renewal or a new application? Will the capacity of VHRs within the residential area include ONLY the residential zone or will this include those in the Tourist Core and Commercial zones? Can I get on a waitlist for my permit application for VHR’s? I had a prior permit and it was removed due to Measure T, will the city reimburse me for the lost revenue? Will the ruling on Measure T cause any changes to, postpone, or eliminate my T.O.T payments? What will happen to my Qualified Vacation Home Rental (QVHR) permit? View All /FAQ.aspx Contact Us Ashley Galdi VHR/Code Compliance Investigator Email Phone: 530-542-6071 Code Enforcement Phone: 530-542-6105 Agendas & Minutes Apply or Pay Job Opportunities Report a Concern Apply for a Building Permit Notify Me® 1901 Lisa Maloff Way South Lake Tahoe, CA 96150 Contact Us Site Feedback Site Map Accessibility Copyright Notices /QuickLinks.aspx Government Websites by CivicPlus® Loading Loading Do Not Show Again Close []